[Music]
have you ever felt like you're living in
a body you literally know nothing about
woohoo Freaky Friday every once in a
while your eye starts twitching by
itself your stomach starts singing like
a whale or you get covered in goose
bumps for no reason at all it's time for
you and your body to get to know each
other better and these 11 facts will
help you with that one why do your
muscles twitch for no reason it's kind
of embarrassing when you have to explain
to someone why you're constantly winking
at them if your eye starts to twitch
occasionally it's a signal that you're
dealing with stress or having a hard
time trying to get a good sleep if not
then you probably drank too much coffee
or ate something extremely sweet
recently the twitch itself is harmless
it's caused by muscle fatigue and over
stimulation from your brain too why do
we shake when it's cold we're all
familiar with uncontrollable chattering
teeth and shivering legs when we're cold
this happens because all your muscles
are slightly yet rapidly moving to
generate some heat from friction rub
your hands together on a cold day and
they'll become warmer this is the same
thing but on a smaller scale your brain
works like a conductor it conducts the
temperature of your skin if it's warmer
than 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit it'll send
a signal for it to start sweating if
it's colder than that it'll send a
signal for your muscles to start
shivering 3 why does your leg fall
asleep it's scary to stand up from your
desk and have the sensation that one of
your legs is useless now for some reason
well don't panic we all know that it'll
wake up in a while even though the
process will include a complete lack of
control and a few minutes of unnerving
comfort this happened because you were
sitting in an odd position the way you
sat restricted the amount of blood that
could get your leg only 10 minutes
without proper blood circulation will
cause this numbness and the
uncomfortable feeling afterwards is the
sin
sation of blood rushing back in to every
bit of your leg yep pins and needles for
why are your eyes wet when you wake up
sometimes it's not only that but you
might also wake up with a crusty mess in
the corners of your eyes it all happens
for the same reason you see when we
sleep we don't always keep our eyes
tightly shut to compensate for the lack
of protection and wash away all the dust
that might settle on your eye during the
night special glands in the corners of
our eyes produce tears and when you feel
tired and are getting ready to go to
sleep your eyes water from all the
yawning yawning applies pressure to the
lacrimal glands and at the same time
blocks tears from their regular path to
our eyes that's why they overflow as
soon as you stop yawning five
what about yawning when you don't want
to sleep at all basically yawning isn't
only supposed to happen when you're
sleepy or bored it's just the most
common circumstances for it fun fact
parachutists often yawn right before
they get ready to jump from the plane
now I wouldn't call that a good moment
to take a nap nor would I say that
skydiving is the most boring thing ever
haha try it sometime yawning is
basically stretching your jaw and
inhaling as deep as you can both actions
make the blood in your vessels rush to
your head and spinal fluid go down your
spine surprisingly it's a way for your
body to shake you up whenever you feel
stressed or anxious
you might yawn as your body prepares
itself to deal with it
yawning also has psychological reasons
you've probably noticed that it can be
contagious that's because we're a highly
social species and as such we need to
synchronize our cycles of sleep with
each other
in short when one person starts beyond
from fatigue he or she sends a signal of
fatigue to others around and makes
everyone sleepy
well it turns out yawning is magic
six what are either x' have you ever
seen those strange ghostly looking flies
that seem to float aimlessly right in
front of your eyes or maybe even inside
your eyes
well don't be afraid these aren't flies
at all their eye floaters they're
especially easy to see if you look at
the blue sky or other light and clear
scenes floaters aren't exactly objects
they're just tiny imperfections in one
special part of the main body of the eye
called the vitreous we see them because
these structural imperfections stand in
the way of the light that passes from
pupil to retina which forms your vision
so you don't have to rush to an
optometrist the next time you see them
they're usually perfectly harmless seven
white is falling asleep sometimes feel
like literally falling the worst kind of
waking up is when you jerk or jump
startled with a terrible sensation that
you fell off your bed or a cliff it
turns out this happens right after you
fallen asleep at the exact moment all
your muscles simultaneously relax your
brain may mistake it as a distress call
because normally if all your muscles
relaxed you'd fall to prepare you for
the fall your brain will naturally send
a lot of quick signals to your muscles
to make them work again this phenomenon
even has a special name hypnic jerks the
same thing also happens on a smaller
scale making your legs or arms twitch
when you're falling asleep number eight
what your legs feel lead heavy when
you're afraid when startled or just
scared your legs might become as heavy
as tree trunks your heart will be
pumping and your skin will get covered
in goose bumps these are all result of
the same process a reaction to
adrenaline coming into your blood flow
when adrenaline kicks in it triggers
what's called the fight-or-flight
reaction this reaction causes increased
muscle tension and blood flow making
your legs feel heavy all your body
systems become highly alert getting
ready to act hard and
act fast but at the same time this
reaction could go two different ways you
might run like an Olympic athlete or you
might not be able to move a single
muscle the reason is that there are two
kinds of reactions to a dangerous
situation you can deal with it by
overcoming it or you can avoid it
completely 9 why do your fingers get all
wrinkly from water because it's easier
to pick fruits from trees in rainy
weather with hands like that
no seriously let me explain the
wrinkling itself happens when small
blood vessels constrict under the skin
but that's not the most interesting part
mm-hmm scientists discovered that if the
nerves in your fingers are damaged the
wrinkles won't appear at all no matter
how long they've been under water that
means that wrinkling happens because of
a specific reaction of our body to water
it's not just a quality of the skin
itself so it must be important for some
biological reason further tests have
involved trying to collect wet glass
marbles with dry hands and with wrinkly
wet hands and they've proved that it's
much easier to collect those marbles
with wet hands the same goes for feet
too it's much easier and safer to stand
on a wet surface with your feet covered
in wrinkles I guess it's Nature's Way of
improving our grip in a slippery
situation number 10
why do joints pop even if you don't
always notice that horrifying sound
because of your own bad habit to crack
joints you'd recognize it anywhere to be
fair it's even worse when you just stand
up from your desk and hear a click as if
you've somehow hurt yourself or broken
something that's not the case at all
it's been proven that cracking joints
doesn't even affect our wellness that
much the clicking and cracking sounds
happen when a serious force pushes on a
joint bending it in a way that causes a
small bubble of gas to escape and
deflate sort of like a joint fart this
bubble appears naturally in every joint
of your body and doesn't pose any threat
just like joint cracking itself do you
have a bad habit of cracking your joints
or are you one of those that can't stand
the sound let me know down in the
comments eleven what makes your stomach
growl belly bubbles gut Rumble a rumbly
in your tumbling coal whatever we all
know this embarrassing sound too well
what's not as well known is what causes
it
in basic terms your brain is mocking you
for not eating I know it sounds strange
but how else would you explain this when
your stomach is empty your brain sends a
signal to start the process of digesting
something and transporting it further
down the digestive system but there's
nothing to move except gas which is what
makes all the noise so just put
something down there will ya hey if you
learn something new today then give the
video a like and share it with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
the right and remember stay on the
bright side of life
[Music]